

## Installation of binary packages

Binary packages are provided for the following Linux distributions:
  - Ubuntu 20.04 "Focal" 
  - Debian 10 "Buster"
  - Debian 11 "Bullseye"

Ubuntu packages are tested on Xubuntu LTS distributions and should work on
any Ubuntu desktop flavour (e.g. native Ubuntu, Kubuntu, Lubuntu). 

Adding the binary package repository is done by adding an entry to the package
managment sources, e.g. by creating a file `/etc/apt/sources.list.d/airtools.list`
containing a line:

    deb [trusted=yes] http://fg-kometen.vdsastro.de/airtools/debian YOUR_DISTRIBUTION main

where YOUR_DISTRIBUTION has to be replaced by the codename of your distribution
(e.g. focal).

Installation (or any later update) is done by invoking the following commands:
sudo apt update
sudo apt install airtools


## Compiling and Installing from source code

If you are running a Linux distribution for which there are no binary packages
provided then you must compile and install all software components by yourself.
The compilation depends on a number of libraries. On a Debian/Ubuntu based
distribution they can be installed by the following example command:

    apt-get install libnetpbm10-dev libjasper-dev libjpeg-dev libcfitsio3-dev \
        libtiff5-dev libfftw3-dev libblas-dev libatlas-base-dev \
        libplplot-dev plplot12-driver-xwin plplot12-driver-cairo libshp-dev \
        libcurl4-gnutls-dev

Please note that package names may be different, depending on your distribution.
If you are compiling from a Debian source packages you must also install the
required build tools:

    apt-get install build-essential fakeroot devscripts debhelper \
        javahelper dh-autoreconf

If you have questions regarding the detailed procedure, do not hesitate to
contact the author of the AIRTOOLS software.


## Documentation

Documentation is available under the `/usr/share/doc/airtools-doc/` directory
after successful installation of the binary packages. The most up-to-date
documentation is always found on GitHub's
[doc directory](doc/).


## Known Problems

No plots during "Astrometric calibration":

Several check plots are generated by the underlying `scamp` program. This
might fail due to a buggy plplot driver which is shipped on some Linux
distributions. Solution: Remove the offending package by
`sudo apt-get remove plplot12-driver-qt`.
